.TH AGENT-SESSIONS 1 "2026-07-10" "agent-sessions 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
agent-sessions \- list and filter Claude Code and Codex CLI session transcripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agent-sessions
[\fB\-p\fR \fIPROVIDER\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR \fIPATH\fR]...
[\fB\-A\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR \fITEXT\fR]
[\fB\-\-since\fR \fIDATETIME\fR]
[\fB\-\-until\fR \fIDATETIME\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR \fIKEY\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR]
[\fB\-L\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-header\fR]
[\fB\-\-flat\fR]
[\fB\-\-claude\-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR]
[\fB\-\-codex\-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR]
.br
.B agent-sessions
{\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR|\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B agent-sessions
scans the on-disk transcript stores that
.BR claude (1)
(Claude Code) and
.BR codex (1)
(Codex CLI) maintain on this machine, and prints one line per session:
which tool produced it, when it was last touched, its human-assigned
name if any, the working directory it ran in, and its session id.
.PP
Neither tool exposes a public API or subcommand for this, so
.B agent-sessions
reads their transcript files directly. See
.B FILES
below, and the "File formats" section of the project README, for
exactly what is read and how it can break if either tool changes its
on-disk layout. See
.B CAVEATS
before relying on this in a script.
.PP
A coordinator session that spawns subagents produces one row per
subagent with the same relationship, apart from id, in both tools'
storage. In table format these are nested under their coordinator
(indented, prefixed with a tree branch) instead of listed as flat,
easily-confused rows; a subagent is identified by its
.B role
(agent type/nickname or task description) rather than a name, since
subagents are never independently renamed. Use
.B \-\-flat
to disable nesting; \fBjson\fR/\fBjsonl\fR output is always flat and
carries \fBparent_id\fR/\fBrole\fR so a consumer can reconstruct the
tree itself. See
.B SUBAGENTS
below.
.PP
Output defaults to a human-readable table restricted to sessions whose
working directory falls under
.IR /home/ubuntu/work ,
matching where most work happens on this machine. Both the workspace
filter and its default can be changed; see
.B \-\-workspace\-root
and
.BR \-\-all\-workspaces .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-provider\fR {claude,codex,all}
Restrict to sessions from one provider. Default: \fBall\fR.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-workspace\-root\fR \fIPATH\fR
Only include sessions whose working directory is \fIPATH\fR or below
it. Repeatable; a session is included if it falls under \fIany\fR
given root. Sessions whose working directory could not be recovered
from their transcript are excluded whenever at least one root is in
effect.
.br
Default: the colon-separated list in
\fB$AGENT_SESSIONS_WORKSPACE_ROOT\fR, or
.I /home/ubuntu/work
if that variable is unset.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-all\-workspaces\fR
Disable the workspace-root filter entirely; include every session
found, including ones with no recoverable working directory.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-named\-only\fR
Skip sessions that were never given a human name (via \fB/rename\fR in
Claude Code, or the equivalent thread-rename action in Codex CLI).
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-query\fR \fITEXT\fR
Case-insensitive substring match against the session name, or (since
subagents have no name of their own) a subagent's role.
.TP
\fB\-\-since\fR \fIDATETIME\fR, \fB\-\-until\fR \fIDATETIME\fR
Only include sessions last updated at/after, or at/before,
\fIDATETIME\fR. Accepts ISO-8601 dates or date-times
(\fB2026\-07\-01\fR or \fB2026\-07\-01T12:00:00\fR); a bare date is
midnight local time.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sort\fR {updated,started,name}
Sort key. Default: \fBupdated\fR.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reverse\fR
Reverse the default sort order: \fBupdated\fR/\fBstarted\fR default to
newest-first and become oldest-first; \fBname\fR defaults to A-Z and
becomes Z-A.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-limit\fR \fIN\fR
Only show the first \fIN\fR results after sorting.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR {table,json,jsonl}
Output format. \fBtable\fR is for humans. \fBjson\fR prints one
indented JSON array. \fBjsonl\fR prints one compact JSON object per
line and is the recommended format for scripts and for other agents
consuming this tool's output. Default: \fBtable\fR.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-long\fR
In table format, add the session's start time, full id, and
transcript path as extra columns.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-header\fR
In table format, omit the header row.
.TP
\fB\-\-flat\fR
In table format, list every session as its own row instead of nesting
subagents under their coordinator. Has no effect on \fBjson\fR/\fBjsonl\fR,
which are always flat. See
.BR SUBAGENTS .
.TP
\fB\-\-claude\-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR
Claude Code config directory to scan. Default: \fB$CLAUDE_CONFIG_DIR\fR
if set, else
.IR ~/.claude .
.TP
\fB\-\-codex\-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR
Codex CLI home directory to scan. Default: \fB$CODEX_HOME\fR if set,
else
.IR ~/.codex .
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print usage and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the version and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success. This includes the case where no sessions matched \(em an
empty result is not an error.
.TP
.B 1
A session store could not be scanned because of an I/O error. A
provider's directory simply not existing is not an error and yields
zero sessions for that provider.
.TP
.B 2
Bad command-line arguments.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CLAUDE_CONFIG_DIR
Overrides the default Claude Code config directory
.RI ( ~/.claude ).
The same variable Claude Code itself honors.
.TP
.B CODEX_HOME
Overrides the default Codex CLI home directory
.RI ( ~/.codex ).
The same variable Codex CLI itself honors.
.TP
.B AGENT_SESSIONS_WORKSPACE_ROOT
Colon-separated default for \fB\-\-workspace\-root\fR, used when the
option is not given on the command line.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $CLAUDE_CONFIG_DIR/projects/*/*.jsonl
One file per Claude Code session. The file's directory name encodes
the working directory it was started from, but that encoding is lossy,
so this tool reads the \fBcwd\fR field recorded directly on the
transcript's own lines instead of decoding the directory name.
.TP
.I $CODEX_HOME/sessions/YYYY/MM/DD/rollout\-*.jsonl
One file per Codex CLI session, or per resume, since resuming a
session across process restarts can start a new rollout file that
references the original thread. The first line is a
\fBsession_meta\fR record carrying \fBid\fR, \fBcwd\fR, and
\fBtimestamp\fR.
.TP
.I $CODEX_HOME/session_index.jsonl
Append-only log of Codex thread rename events (\fBid\fR,
\fBthread_name\fR, \fBupdated_at\fR); the entry with the latest
\fBupdated_at\fR per id wins.
.TP
.I $CLAUDE_CONFIG_DIR/projects/*/<coordinator-id>/subagents/agent\-*.jsonl
One file per Claude Code subagent, alongside a companion
\fBagent\-*.meta.json\fR carrying \fBagentType\fR and \fBdescription\fR,
used to build the subagent's \fBrole\fR.
.SH SUBAGENTS
A session that spawns subagents (Claude Code's Agent tool; Codex CLI's
equivalent) links each child back to its coordinator, but the two
tools record that link completely differently:
.PP
Claude Code writes each subagent to its own file under
\fI<coordinator-id>/subagents/\fR in the same project directory as the
coordinator (see \fBFILES\fR) -- the coordinator id is the directory
name itself. The subagent's role comes from its \fB.meta.json\fR
sidecar: \fB"<agentType>: <description>"\fR, or whichever of the two is
present.
.PP
Codex CLI writes each subagent to an ordinary-looking rollout file
whose first record has \fBpayload.thread_source == "subagent"\fR and
\fBpayload.parent_thread_id\fR pointing at the coordinator (sometimes
nested instead under \fBpayload.source.subagent.thread_spawn\fR --
both shapes have been observed). The role comes from
\fBagent_role\fR/\fBagent_nickname\fR: \fB"<role>:<nickname>"\fR, or
whichever of the two is present.
.PP
\fBthread_source == "subagent"\fR is what distinguishes an actual
subagent spawn from a plain resume of the same thread (a resume also
carries \fBparent_thread_id\fR, pointing at itself across restarts, but
its \fBthread_source\fR is \fB"user"\fR) -- only a genuine subagent spawn
is treated as a child for nesting purposes; a resume keeps showing the
thread's own name instead, as before.
.PP
A subagent whose coordinator was excluded by a filter (\fB\-\-since\fR,
\fB\-\-named\-only\fR, a \fB\-\-workspace\-root\fR mismatch, ...) still
appears, just as a standalone top-level row instead of a nested one --
it is never dropped because its parent didn't survive a filter.
.SH EXAMPLES
List sessions under the default workspace root, most recently updated
first:
.PP
.RS
.EX
agent\-sessions
.EE
.RE
.PP
Only the ones you bothered to name:
.PP
.RS
.EX
agent\-sessions \-\-named\-only
.EE
.RE
.PP
Codex sessions with "sampler" in the name:
.PP
.RS
.EX
agent\-sessions \-p codex \-q sampler
.EE
.RE
.PP
Every session on the machine, names only, for a script or another
agent:
.PP
.RS
.EX
agent\-sessions \-\-all\-workspaces \-\-format jsonl | jq \-r '.name'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Sessions started on or after July 1st, oldest first:
.PP
.RS
.EX
agent\-sessions \-\-since 2026\-07\-01 \-\-sort started \-\-reverse
.EE
.RE
.PP
Every Codex row on its own line, subagents included, no nesting:
.PP
.RS
.EX
agent\-sessions \-\-flat \-p codex
.EE
.RE
.SH CAVEATS
Both providers' transcript formats are undocumented internals,
observed by inspection rather than specified, and can change without
notice between tool versions. Behavior here was last verified against
Claude Code 2.1.206 and Codex CLI 0.142.0. If a scan of one provider
starts returning nothing, or looks wrong, after a tool upgrade, that
provider's on-disk layout is the first thing to check.
.PP
A Codex thread that has been resumed across process restarts may
appear as more than one row, one per rollout file, since this tool
does not attempt to merge them into a single logical session.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude (1),
.BR codex (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Lei Sun
